So you learned how you can use to React Native seal ie to create React Native projects.
These are projects which have no connection to Expo and which are therefore totally managed by you and
where you can get for at any third party package actually including some Expo packages which are available
outside of the Managed workflow as well.
But you need to configure everything on your own.
That can be easy depending on the package you're using but it also can be harder.
Now there is kind of a middle away between the expo managed workflow and the pure.
You need to do everything on your own workflow and that's the expo bear workflow.
Now what's the bare workflow here.
The bare workflow includes react native app as you would created with the react native seal.
I so not a managed app with Expo as a wrapper but a native app debt however is already pre configured
to support a lot of the Expo packages.
Not all but the expo team is working on making more and more available outside of the managed workflow
but a lot of them are already included and you could check these supported API is page here to get an
idea for which features you can use in the bare workflow as well.
The idea behind the better workflow is that you have is raw native development experience where you
need to use Android Studio and X code so you don't have to expose Seelye and the Expo client helping
you as a you need to do that manually with the help of three act native Seelye.
But we're adding native functionality is easier.
So where you need to do less configuration may be where you can use these powerful native packages that
Expo offers you where you can use all of that without having the limitations Expo gives you.
Though I want to put limitations into quotes because you don't have that many limitations actually in
the managed workflow.
So let me show you a how to get started with that bare workflow and of course for Dad you can also check
the official docs here.
You need to have the expo seal I installed and we installed that at the beginning of the course of course
for creating our managed project.
And you also need to have t react native seal I installed in addition and that's all important.
You should generally have to setup which is described here on the react native docs under react native
seal ie quick start so make sure you set up your system as described here for the different platforms
the different operating systems you're targeting so make sure you install Android Studio and X code
and all the dependencies you'll find here because you will use this workflow you just get a little bit
more than this raw empty project you have here so once you have all of that installed you can create
a new better workflow package with this command or in general by running Expo init and then any project
name of your choice like r n with Expo bear and make sure you're running this command in a path where
you want to create this project folder.
So if you run this now this will create a new export project and this is also the prompt we saw at the
beginning of the course there.
I chose blank.
And please note that this of course was part of the Managed workflow.
What I chose at the beginning of the course.
Now we can choose the better workflow by going to the bare minimum selection here and hit enter.
And what this does is it now creates a new project and we can now enter a name here for the app that's
visible on the home screen air an R and bare in here all.
And here also are in bear.
So she was stabbed here hit enter and now this creates a new project.
I don't want to use yarn and I'll use NPM instead.
This will create a new project a new react native project.
Pretty much like react native init would do so if you only used direct native Seelye but pre configured
such that you can already use a lot of these supported or all of these supported API is not important
the projects add up we're getting here it could all to be achieved with this react native seal I created
set up where I didn't use the exposed seal I had all because the magic happens with the help of these
react native uni modules here.
This is a package in the end provided by the export team which helps you tap into the native device
features you can get in the managed workflow outside of the Managed workflow as well.
Now important if you visit to get a page of the react native uni modules and you can simply search for
this name to find it you'll also find instructions on how to add this to an existing react native app.
Here you find instructions how you need to configure this and all this configuration which is described
here.
So all these things here right which you need to do if you would want to use this package and therefore
the expo native features in a normal react native non Expo app.
You would have to do the manually for such a project created with three act native Seelye.
And that's exactly what Expo init.
With this bear workflow does for us it gives us such a react native project as if we would have created
it with three native Seelye and it reconfigure is it falling all these steps.
So then we don't have to do that.
So that's something we can take advantage of of course.
So let me open this project.
This is now the R N with Expo bear project I just created and there you'll find some similarities to
the react native project we created with the Seelye.
Pretty much the same conflict files the same starting app J.S. content now here actually Axl used an
older version of React Native to create this which is why this looks a little bit different but in the
end you'll get the same setup as with did you react native seal.
I but as I mentioned with the android and I w folder with these Android I w projects pre configured
as described on the uni modules page so that you don't have to do this.
And with this pre configuration you can now easily add third party packages you can add any third party
package you could for example now.
Also again use to react native image picker.
So what we added before what we couldn't add to a managed workflow app.
This package here you can easily add this to a better workflow app because it is just react native app
without expo so you can add this but now unlike in a normal react native only app without export you
can also bring any of the Expo API which are listed here like the expo location package which we used
earlier in the course.
You can now easily install this by following the installation instructions you're linked to here for
the better workflow you would then have to follow the installation attractions you find here on the
Expo location package there you learn that you can install it with this command then run port install
in the IOW directory and no extra setup for Android is required.
So fair enough not too difficult and therefore you could maybe say you get the best of both worlds.
You have a native app With React Native Seelye and you can still tap into some Expo features though
be aware of course that if you run this app you do this of course with React Native run Android for
example and therefore does requires Android Studio it builds it locally on your system you different
takes a bit longer you need to set up everything on your system and for deploying the app and so on
you also have to manage it all here in on your local machine so you get no convenience features which
Expo gives you and new managed workflow where this building and testing is super quick where you can
quickly tested on the real device and so on.
All of that is missing here too.
You have to react native project without Expo but using certain Expo API AIS is easier.
That's the idea behind the bare workflow and since Expo has many amazing API is that of course is a
pretty good reason for using it because these API as these packages are also pretty guaranteed to be
continued and maintained.
Which is not necessarily the case for all other third party packages.
You might be adding to your react native apps.